content/index.mdx, before:

import { Cards, Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card } from "@/components/card";

# NRP Invenio Documentation

<Callout type="warning" emoji="🚧">
  This documentation is a work in progress and may contain inaccuracies or missing information.  We are actively working to improve it.
  If you have any questions, please contact us at cesnet-invenio@eosc.cz.
</Callout>


The **Czech National Repository Platform (NRP)** is a nationwide initiative that provides a unified, sustainable ecosystem for operating digital repositories across the Czech Republic. It aligns standards, services, and infrastructure to support the effective management, preservation, and dissemination of research outputs and cultural heritage.

This site documents the **Invenio-based part of NRP**, which forms one of the core technological pillars of the platform. While the broader NRP ecosystem spans multiple repository technologies and shared national services, the content here is focused exclusively on repositories based on **InvenioRDM**.

## Scope

This documentation covers:

- The architecture, configuration, development and operation of NRP repositories based on [**InvenioRDM** software](https://inveniordm.docs.cern.ch/).
- **NRP-specific extensions** for Invenio, including:
  - metadata model tooling  
  - vocabulary and taxonomy management  
  - UI customization and frontend build processes  
  - packaging, deployment, and orchestration patterns
- Guidance for **users**, **developers**, **integrators**, and **administrators** working on Invenio-based services under the NRP umbrella.

## Relationship to the NRP Project

This site complements the high-level documentation available at: https://docs.nrp.eosc.cz/

The main NRP documentation describes:

- project governance  
- national shared services (authentication, PID infrastructure, harvesting, long-term preservation)  
- institution onboarding  
- interoperability standards  
- overall platform architecture

## Intended Audience

- **Software engineers and frontend developers** working with NRP Invenio modules  
- **Repository administrators and DevOps teams** deploying or configuring Invenio-based repositories  
- **Institutional integrators** adapting Invenio to local institutional needs while maintaining NRP compatibility
- **End users and researchers** seeking guidance on using NRP Invenio repositories effectively

## What's Next?

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card title="Get started with Invenio Repository" href="/installation" arrow={true}>
    Start your journey with NRP Invenio by creating and running your first repository instance.
  </Card>
  <Card title="User guide" href="/userguide" arrow={true}>
    Learn how to use NRP Invenio repositories effectively as an end user.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Administrator guide" href="/administration" arrow={true}>
    Comprehensive guide for repository administrators on managing and maintaining NRP Invenio repositories.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Customization guide" href="/customize" arrow={true}>
    Learn how to customize and extend NRP Invenio repositories to meet your specific needs.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deployment guide" href="/deploy" arrow={true}>
    Instructions for deploying and scaling NRP Invenio repositories in various environments.
  </Card>
</Cards>

Commit message:

Support channel and mailing list

content/index.mdx, after:

import { Cards, Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card } from "@/components/card";

# NRP Invenio Documentation

<Callout type="warning" emoji="🚧">
  This documentation is a work in progress and may contain inaccuracies or missing information.  We are actively working to improve it.
  If you have any questions, please contact us at cesnet-invenio@eosc.cz.
</Callout>


The **Czech National Repository Platform (NRP)** is a nationwide initiative that provides a unified, sustainable ecosystem for operating digital repositories across the Czech Republic. It aligns standards, services, and infrastructure to support the effective management, preservation, and dissemination of research outputs and cultural heritage.

This site documents the **Invenio-based part of NRP**, which forms one of the core technological pillars of the platform. While the broader NRP ecosystem spans multiple repository technologies and shared national services, the content here is focused exclusively on repositories based on **InvenioRDM**.

## Scope

This documentation covers:

- The architecture, configuration, development and operation of NRP repositories based on [**InvenioRDM** software](https://inveniordm.docs.cern.ch/).
- **NRP-specific extensions** for Invenio, including:
  - metadata model tooling  
  - vocabulary and taxonomy management  
  - UI customization and frontend build processes  
  - packaging, deployment, and orchestration patterns
- Guidance for **users**, **developers**, **integrators**, and **administrators** working on Invenio-based services under the NRP umbrella.

## Relationship to the NRP Project

This site complements the high-level documentation available at: https://docs.nrp.eosc.cz/

The main NRP documentation describes:

- project governance  
- national shared services (authentication, PID infrastructure, harvesting, long-term preservation)  
- institution onboarding  
- interoperability standards  
- overall platform architecture

## Intended Audience

- **Software engineers and frontend developers** working with NRP Invenio modules  
- **Repository administrators and DevOps teams** deploying or configuring Invenio-based repositories  
- **Institutional integrators** adapting Invenio to local institutional needs while maintaining NRP compatibility
- **End users and researchers** seeking guidance on using NRP Invenio repositories effectively

## Getting in touch

For questions, feedback, or contributions related to this documentation or NRP Invenio repositories, please contact the NRP Invenio team at[cesnet-invenio@eosc.cz](mailto:cesnet-invenio@eosc.cz) .

We also provide a low-traffic mailing list for notifications about updates to the CESNET Invenio platform and InvenioRDM in general. You are welcome to subscribe at [lists.cesnet.cz](https://lists.cesnet.cz/wws/info/nrp-invenio).

## What's Next?

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card title="Get started with Invenio Repository" href="/installation" arrow={true}>
    Start your journey with NRP Invenio by creating and running your first repository instance.
  </Card>
  <Card title="User guide" href="/userguide" arrow={true}>
    Learn how to use NRP Invenio repositories effectively as an end user.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Administrator guide" href="/administration" arrow={true}>
    Comprehensive guide for repository administrators on managing and maintaining NRP Invenio repositories.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Customization guide" href="/customize" arrow={true}>
    Learn how to customize and extend NRP Invenio repositories to meet your specific needs.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deployment guide" href="/deploy" arrow={true}>
    Instructions for deploying and scaling NRP Invenio repositories in various environments.
  </Card>
</Cards>
