pages/customize/branding/templating.mdx, before:

import { Difficulty } from "@/components/difficulty";
import { Callout, FileTree } from "nextra/components";

# Templating <Difficulty level="intermediate" />

Templating is used to customize mainly a large portions of the user interface and/or
to change page layouts, or to create a completely new pages for the Invenio repository.

## Prerequisites

Before diving into templating, it's recommended that you have an understanding of [Jinja](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/),
which is the templating language of choice for Invenio repositories.

## Changing The Templates

What templates are used to render which pages, is determined mostly by [Invenio site configuration](/customize/branding/theme#modifying-invenio-configuration).
It is a common convention that configuration options regarding the templates usually contains the `_TEMPLATE` suffix in the name.

Jinja templates are `.html` files with Jinja syntax. Any custom templates should be created and placed under the registered `templates` folder.

## Template Inheritance And Composition

It is a common practice to compose the final page from one or more templates by leveraging Jinja's [Template inheritance](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/templates/#template-inheritance) mechanism.

Usually you would have a [base page template](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-theme/blob/master/invenio_theme/templates/invenio_theme/page.html), which provides just the overall page layout and a few extension points (e.g.: `{% block header %}`).
Other templates inheriting from it (`{% extends "base.html" %}`) could then extend the base template by providing their own content for the extension points. (e.g. by providing a header text for the `header` block).

## Referencing Templates

Template references (either in Invenio site config, or when referenced from other templates) are resolved as paths **relative** to the registered `templates` folders.
For example with this file structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="myrepo" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="ui" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.Folder name="branding" defaultOpen>
            <FileTree.Folder name="semantic-ui" defaultOpen>
              <FileTree.Folder name="templates" defaultOpen>
                <FileTree.Folder name="custom" defaultOpen>
                    <FileTree.File name="myfooter.html"/>
                </FileTree.Folder>
                </FileTree.Folder>
            </FileTree.Folder>
        </FileTree.Folder>
    </FileTree.Folder>
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

wherever I'd like to use `myfooter.html` template, I would refer to it as `custom/myfooter.html`.

## Example

<Callout type="info">
TODO: this part needs more work.
</Callout>


## Advanced Templating with JinjaX

In NRP-based Invenio repositories, apart from using regular Jinja macros, it is possible to
create a reusable Jinja snippets / components with a clearly defined interface of accepted
properties (usage is similar to React UI components) by using the [JinjaX](https://github.com/jpsca/jinjax) extension.

You can recongnize JinjaX components by the camel-cased filename, `.jinja` file extension and usually the:
```jinja
{# def message="hello world!", ... #}
```
properties definition header.

<Callout type="info">
TODO: this part needs more work.
- how to register my JinjaX components
- how to discover which JinjaX components are available to me
- how to reference JinjaX component
</Callout>

Commit message:

link to fe templating development

pages/customize/branding/templating.mdx, after:

import { Difficulty } from "@/components/difficulty";
import { Callout, FileTree, Cards, Card } from "nextra/components";

# Templating <Difficulty level="intermediate" />

Templating is used to customize mainly a large portions of the user interface and/or
to change page layouts, or to create a completely new pages for the Invenio repository.

## Changing The Templates

What templates are used to render which pages, is determined mostly by [Invenio site configuration](/customize/branding/theme#modifying-invenio-configuration).
It is a common convention that configuration options regarding the templates usually contains the `_TEMPLATE` suffix in the name.

Jinja templates are `.html` files with Jinja syntax. Any custom templates should be created and placed under the registered `templates` folder.

## Template Inheritance And Composition

It is a common practice to compose the final page from one or more templates by leveraging Jinja's [Template inheritance](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/templates/#template-inheritance) mechanism.

Usually you would have a [base page template](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-theme/blob/master/invenio_theme/templates/invenio_theme/page.html), which provides just the overall page layout and a few extension points (e.g.: `{% block header %}`).
Other templates inheriting from it (`{% extends "base.html" %}`) could then extend the base template by providing their own content for the extension points. (e.g. by providing a header text for the `header` block).

## Referencing Templates

Template references (either in Invenio site config, or when referenced from other templates) are resolved as paths **relative** to the registered `templates` folders.
For example with this file structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="myrepo" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="ui" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.Folder name="branding" defaultOpen>
            <FileTree.Folder name="semantic-ui" defaultOpen>
              <FileTree.Folder name="templates" defaultOpen>
                <FileTree.Folder name="custom" defaultOpen>
                    <FileTree.File name="myfooter.html"/>
                </FileTree.Folder>
                </FileTree.Folder>
            </FileTree.Folder>
        </FileTree.Folder>
    </FileTree.Folder>
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

wherever I'd like to use `myfooter.html` template, I would refer to it as `custom/myfooter.html`.

## Example

<Callout type="info">
TODO: this part needs more work.
</Callout>


## Advanced Templating with JinjaX

In NRP-based Invenio repositories, apart from using regular Jinja macros, it is possible to
use and create a reusable Jinja snippets / components with a clearly defined interface of accepted
properties (usage is similar to React UI components) by using the [JinjaX](https://github.com/jpsca/jinjax) extension.

You can recongnize JinjaX components by the camel-cased filename, `.jinja` file extension and usually the:
```jinja
{# def message="hello world!", ... #}
```
properties definition header.

<Callout type="info">
TODO: this part needs more work.
- how to register my JinjaX components
- how to discover which JinjaX components are available to me
- how to reference JinjaX component
</Callout>

This article only describes, how you can customize or change the templates used across the
repository site. If you wish to learn more about development of own custom templates and JinjaX
components, have a look at:

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Front-end Development"
    href="/develop/frontend"
  />
</Cards>
